>> Woodruff: VIOLENCE STRIKES
FERGUSON AGAIN.
A MANHUNT IS UNDERWAY AFTER
SHOTS WOUND TWO POLICE OFFICERS
STANDING GUARD DURING PROTESTS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY:
DOWN TO THE WIRE.
AN ELECTION PREVIEW, AS POLLS
SHOW ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
NETANYAHU'S PARTY LOSING GROUND.
>> NETANYAHU THINKS-- HE REALLY
THINKS SO-- THAT HE IS THE ONLY
ONE THAT CAN PROTECT THE
COUNTRY.
ITS REALLY STRANGE, BUT THAT'S
HOW NETANYAHU THINKS.
>> Woodruff:LUS, P COMPUTER
CODING AS A CAREER.
AMERICANS STRUGGLING TO FIND
JOBS TURN TO WEB DEVELOPMENT AND
PROGRAMMING FOR BETTER WORK AND
WAGES.
>> WHY GO TO COLLEGE FOR FOUR
YEARS AND WORK UP THE CORPORATE
LADDER TO GET IN THE POSITION TO
DO SOMETHING GREAT WHEN YOU CAN
JUST LEARN TO CREATE SOMETHING
GREAT?
>> Ifill: AND, WITH SPRING
TRAINING UNDERWAY, WE LOOK AT
HOW BASEBALL IS TRYING TO MAKE
NINE LONG INNINGS GO FASTER.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE LATEST INCIDENT
INVOLVING SECRET SERVICE AGENTS
TOOK A NEW TURN TODAY.
TWO SENIOR AGENTS HAD ALLEGEDLY
BEEN DRINKING WHEN THEIR CAR HIT
A SECURITY BARRICADE AT THE
WHITE HOUSE LAST WEEK.
NOW, "THE WASHINGTON POST"
REPORTS, THEY  MAY HAVE
DISRUPTED A BOMB INVESTIGATION
AND DRIVEN OVER A SUSPICIOUS
PACKAGE THAT LATER TURNED OUT TO
BE A BOOK.
OFFICIALS SAID TODAY THE
HOMELAND SECURITY DEPARTMENT HAS
OPENED AN INVESTIGATION INTO THE
INCIDENT.
>> Woodruff: DIVERS OFF THE
FLORIDA PANHANDLE HAVE FOUND AN
ARMY HELICOPTER THAT CRASHED IN
THE GULF OF MEXICO, KILLING 11
SERVICEMEN.
THE SEVEN U.S. MARINES AND FOUR
NATIONAL GUARDSMEN WERE ON A
SPECIAL OPERATIONS TRAINING
MISSION TUESDAY NIGHT.
THE FIRE CHIEF FROM NEARBY EGLIN
AIR FORCE BASE SAYS A SALVAGE
UNIT WILL TRY TO RAISE THE
WRECKAGE.
>> BUT AS YOU CAN SEE WITH THE
CONDITIONS-- AND WE'VE GOT SOME
WEATHER COMING IN LATER ON--
THEY'RE PROBABLY NOT GONNA BE
ABLE TO START ANY OPERATION
TONIGHT.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE WEATHER IS
TOMORROW, BUT I BELIEVE WE HAVE
SOME MORE WEATHER COMING
TOMORROW, SO THAT MAY HAMPER THE
BEGINNING OF THEIR OPERATION.
>> Woodruff: THE HELICOPTER WENT
DOWN IN HEAVY FOG, AFTER ANOTHER
HELICOPTER HAD TURNED BACK
BECAUSE OF THE CONDITIONS.
>> Ifill: ANOTHER CANADIAN
NATIONAL RAILWAY TRAIN DERAILED
OVERNIGHT, THE THIRD IN A WEEK.
13 CARS JUMPED THE TRACKS IN
RURAL MANITOBA NEAR THE TOWN OF
GREGG, AND ONE OF THEM SPILLED
AN OIL PRODUCT.
THERE'S BEEN GROWING CONCERN IN
CANADA AND THE U.S. OVER OIL
TRAIN DERAILMENTS.
>> Woodruff: IN BANGLADESH, AT
LEAST FIVE PEOPLE WERE KILLED
WHEN A CEMENT FACTORY COLLAPSED.
DOZENS MORE WERE FEARED TRAPPED.
RESCUE WORKERS IN THE PORT CITY
OF MONGLA STRUGGLED TO BREAK
THROUGH THE MANGLED DEBRIS AND
BEAMS THROUGHOUT THE DAY.
THEY MANAGED TO RESCUE AT LEAST
40 PEOPLE.
TWO YEARS AGO, MORE THAN 1,100
DIED WHEN A GARMENT FACTORY
BUILDING COLLAPSED IN DHAKA, THE
COUNTRY'S CAPITAL.
>> Ifill: IRAN'S SUPREME LEADER
TODAY REJECTED A WARNING LETTER
FROM U.S. SENATORS, OVER NUCLEAR
NEGOTIATIONS.
IN THE LETTER, 47 REPUBLICANS
SAID ANY AGREEMENT THAT LACKS
CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL, MIGHT BE
SCRAPPED BY THE NEXT U.S.
PRESIDENT.
IN TEHRAN TODAY, AYATOLLAH ALI
KHAMENEI FIRED BACK THAT THE
LETTER SHOWS AMERICAN DECEIT AND
DISINTEGRATION...
>> ( translated ): THESE
GENTLEMEN, THE SENATORS HAVE
OPENLY ANNOUNCED THAT WHEN THE
CURRENT ADMINISTRATION IS NO
LONGER IN OFFICE, THE DEAL THAT
AMERICA IS MAKING WILL BE NULL
AND VOID.
THIS IS THE ULTIMATE DEGREE OF
THE COLLAPSE OF POLITICAL
ETHICS.
>> Ifill: KHAMENEI HAS GENERALLY
WHILE EXPRESSING DOUBT ABOUT
U.S. MOTIVES.
>> Woodruff: TENSIONS BETWEEN
YEMEN AND SAUDI ARABIA RATCHETED
UP TODAY.
SHIITE REBELS WHO NOW CONTROL
MUCH OF YEMEN BEGAN MILITARY
EXERCISES IN THEIR HOME PROVINCE
NEAR SAUDI ARABIA.
THE SAUDIS REGARD THEM AS
TERRORISTS BACKED BY IRAN.
ALSO TODAY, REBELS OPENED FIRE
ON SUNNI PROTESTERS IN SOUTHERN
YEMEN, KILLING AT LEAST ONE
PERSON.
>> Ifill: THE DEATH TOLL FROM
EBOLA IN WEST AFRICA HAS PASSED
THE 10,000 MARK.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
MARKED THE MILESTONE TODAY, IN
THE YEAR-OLD OUTBREAK.
AND THERE WAS WORD THAT AN
AMERICAN MEDICAL WORKER HAS BEEN
INFECTED IN SIERRA LEONE.
THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF
HEALTH SAID THE PATIENT WILL
ARRIVE AT ITS HOSPITAL IN
BETHESDA, MARYLAND, ON FRIDAY.
>> Woodruff: THE KREMLIN TRIED
TODAY TO QUASH RUMORS THAT
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
IS AILING.
PUTIN IS 62 YEARS OLD.
HE HAS NOT BEEN SEEN IN PUBLIC
SINCE MARCH 5, AND HE CANCELED A
TRIP TO KAZAKHSTAN.
BUT A SPOKESMAN INSISTED TODAY
THERE'S NOTHING WRONG.
>> WELL, THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO
REASON FOR ANY DOUBTS ABOUT THE
STATE OF HIS HEALTH, HIS HEALTH
IS REALLY PERFECT AND EVERYTHING
IS OK WITH HIM, AND HE'S WORKING
IN ACCORDANCE WITH HIS
TRADITIONALLY OVERLOADED WORKING
SCHEDULE.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE,
RUSSIA'S ACTIONS IN UKRAINE
PROMPTED THE GOVERNMENT OF
POLAND TODAY TO ANNOUNCE
NATIONWIDE DEFENSE EXERCISES.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
WALL STREET BOUNCED BACK FROM
MONDAY'S BIG LOSSES, PARTLY ON
UPBEAT NEWS ABOUT BANK
DIVIDENDS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 260 POINTS TO CLOSE NEAR
17,900.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 43 POINTS,
AND THE S&P 500 WAS UP 25.
>> AND THE REVEREND WILLIE
BARROW DIED AT A CHICAGO
HOSPITAL TODAY.
SHE WAS A CIVIL RIGHTS FIELD
ORGANIZER FOR DR. MARTIN LUTHER
KING JR. IN THE 60s AND TOOK
PART IN THE MARCHS ON WASHINGTON
AND IN SELMA, ALABAMA.
MORE RECENTLY, SHE FOCUSED ON
GUN VIOLENCE IN CHICAGO.
REVEREND WILLIE BARROW WAS 90
YEARS OLD.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
HOW POLICE RESPOND TO THE LATEST
FERGUSON SHOOTING.
FRIENDLY FIRE KILLS 25 IRAQI
SOLDIERS.
ISRAEL'S ELECTIONS GO DOWN TO
THE WIRE.
WHY LEARNING TO CODE COULD SPELL
JOB SECURITY.
AND, NEW RULES TO MAKE BASEBALL
MOVE FASTER.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO LAST NIGHT'S
VIOLENCE IN FERGUSON, MISSOURI,
WHERE TWO POLICE OFFICERS WERE
SHOT OUTSIDE A PROTEST.
THIS SHAKY AMATEUR VIDEO
CAPTURED THE MOMENT THAT THE
GUNFIRE ERUPTED, SHORTLY AFTER
MIDNIGHT.
AN OTHERWISE PEACEFUL
DEMONSTRATION HAD BEEN WINDING
DOWN, OUTSIDE THE FERGUSON
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
>> WE HEARD, THE CROWD, WHAT
SOUND LIKE A FIRECRACKER SO WE
LOOKED UP TO THE TOP OF THE HILL
AND WE SAW TWO OR THREE MORE
ACTUAL GUNSHOT FLARES FROM THE
MUZZLE OF THE GUN FIRING TOWARDS
THE OFFICERS.
>> Woodruff: POLICE SAID THOSE
FLASHES LIKELY CAME FROM A
HANDGUN, SOME 125 YARDS AWAY.
THERE WERE THREE OR FOUR SHOTS,
AND TWO STRUCK HOME.
ST. LOUIS COUNTY POLICE CHIEF
JON BELMAR.
>> THIS IS REALLY AN AMBUSH IS
WHAT IT IS.
YOU CAN'T SEE IT COMING.
YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND THAT IT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN AND YOU'RE
BASICALLY DEFENSELESS FROM THE
FACT THAT IT IS HAPPENING TO YOU
AT THE TIME.
>> Woodruff: ONE OF THE WOUNDED
OFFICERS WAS SHOT IN THE FACE,
THE BULLET LODGED BEHIND HIS
EAR.
THE OTHER WAS HIT IN THE
SHOULDER BY A BULLET THAT JUST
MISSED HIS SPINE.
>> WE COULD HAVE BURIED TWO
POLICE OFFICERS NEXT WEEK OVER
THIS.
>> Woodruff: INSTEAD, OFFICIALS
SAID NEITHER MAN SUFFERED
PERMANENT INJURY, AND BOTH WERE
RELEASED FROM A HOSPITAL LATE
THIS MORNING.
THE SHOOTINGS CAME JUST HOURS
AFTER FERGUSON POLICE CHIEF TOM
JACKSON RESIGNED.
HE'D BEEN UNDER PRESSURE SINCE
THE AUGUST SHOOTING DEATH OF
MICHAEL BROWN BY OFFICER DARREN
WILSON, WHO'S SINCE LEFT THE
FORCE.
THEN, LAST WEEK, THE U.S.
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT ACCUSED
FERGUSON'S POLICE AND COURTS OF
RAMPANT RACISM, PROMPTING CHIEF
JACKSON AND FIVE OTHERS TO QUIT
OR BE FIRED.
IN WASHINGTON TODAY, HOWEVER,
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
WARNED LAST NIGHT'S SHOOTINGS
THREATEN ANY ATTEMPT TO MOVE
FORWARD.
>> THIS WAS NOT SOMEONE TRYING
TO BRING HEALING TO FERGUSON.
THIS WAS A DAMN PUNK, A PUNK WHO
WAS TRYING TO SOW DISCORD IN AN
AREA THAT IS TRYING TO GET ITS
ACT TOGETHER AND TRYING TO BRING
TOGETHER A COMMUNITY THAT HAS
BEEN FRACTURED FOR TOO LONG.
THIS REALLY DISGUSTING AND
COWARDLY ATTACK MIGHT HAVE BEEN
INTENDED TO UNRAVEL ANY SENSE OF
PROGRESS THAT EXISTS BUT I HOPE
THAT DOES NOT IN FACT HAPPEN.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
TWEETED HIS OWN REACTION, AS HE
LEFT FOR A TRIP TO LOS ANGELES,
SAYING:
"VIOLENCE AGAINST POLICE IS
UNACCEPTABLE.
OUR PRAYERS ARE WITH THE
OFFICERS IN (MISSOURI).
PATH TO JUSTICE IS ONE ALL OF US
MUST TRAVEL TOGETHER."
FOR NOW, THE FOCUS IN FERGUSON
IS ON FINDING THE SHOOTER.
OFFICERS SEARCHED A HOUSE TODAY,
AND TOOK SEVERAL PEOPLE IN FOR
QUESTIONING.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO DISCUSS HOW
ST. LOUIS COUNTY POLICE TOLD THE
NEWSHOUR THAT COUNTY AND STATE
POLICE WILL TAKE OVER SECURITY
AT ANY FERGUSON PROTEST TONIGHT.
NOW FOR A LOOK AT WHAT THIS
MOMENT MEANS FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICERS IN FERGUSON AND AROUND
THE COUNTRY, I'M JOINED BY SINCE
NAT POLICE CHIEF JAMES JEFFREY,
WHO IS IN ATLANTA FOR A LAW
ENFORCEMENT CONFERENCE.
BY CHUCK WEXLER.
HE'S THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF
THE POLICE EXECUTIVE RESEARCH
FORUM.
AND DARRELL STEPHENS.
HE'S THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF
THE MAJOR CITIES' CHIEFS
ASSOCIATION.
WELCOME TO ALL THREE OF YOU.
DARRELL STEPHENS, LET ME START
WITH YOU.
YOU DO REPRESENT TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF POLICE OFFICERS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
WHAT IS YOUR REACTION TO WHAT
HAPPENED LAST NIGHT IN FERGUSON?
>> WELL, UNFORTUNATELY, IT'S
ANOTHER ONE OF THOSE TRAGIC
SITUATION WHERE'S POLICE
OFFICERS HAVE BEEN AMBUSHED.
POLICE OFFICERS THAT WERE AT A
PEACEFUL PROTEST THAT WERE
COMPLETELY UNAWARE THAT SOMEONE
WAS WAITING IN THE BACKGROUND TO
TAKE A SHOT AT THEM.
SO IT'S-- IT PUTS THE POLICE
OFFICERS NOT ONLY IN THE ST.
LOUIS COUNTY AREA IN A SITUATION
OF BEING FEARFUL WHEN THEY HIT
THE STREETS.
IT HAS AN IMPACT THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTRY.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT THEY'RE USED
TO, SOMETHING THAT THEY'RE
TRAINED TO RESPOND TO, BUT
NEVERTHELESS, IT'S AN INCREASING
CHALLENGE FOR THEM TO GO OUT, DO
THEIR JOB, POLICE, AND POLICE
EFFECTIVELY WHEN THEY HAVE THIS
ON THEIR MIND ALL THE TIME.
>> Woodruff: CHIEF BLACKWELL,
WHAT WERE YOUR THOUGHTS WHEN YOU
HEARD ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED?
AND DO YOU AGREE WITH
MR. STEPHENS THAT THIS KIND OF
THING HAS AN IMPACT EVERYWHERE?
>> IT ABSOLUTELY DOES.
I AGREE WITH HIM WHOLEHEARTEDLY.
I THINK ANYTHING LIKE THIS, I
SAY IT ALL THE TIME-- WHAT
AFFECTS US ANYWHERE AFFECTS US
EVERYWHERE IN AMERICAN POLICING.
AND SO THIS ACT OF COWARDLY
INJUSTICE COMMITTED AGAINST
THESE POLICE OFFICERS HAS THOSE
OFFICERS MORE ON EDGE NOW TODAY
AT A TIME WHEN WE'RE TRYING TO
INCREASE COLLABORATION AND MEND
THE FRACTURE THAT IS EXISTING IN
THAT COMMUNITY.
IT MAKES IT HARD TO MOVE FORWARD
WHEN YOU HAVE THESE TYPE OF
ACTIVITIES TAKING PLACE.
>> Woodruff: CHUCK WEXLER,
LET'S TALK ABOUT MOVING FORWARD.
YOU WORK WITH POLICE DEPARTMENTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY WHO HAVE BEEN
CITED FOR DIFFERENT KIND OF
MISMANAGEMENT, SOME ACCUSED OF
ABUSE, DEPARTMENTLIKE FERGUSON
AND OTHERS.
WHAT ARE YOU SAYING IN THESE
CIRCUMSTANCES NOT JUST BECAUSE
OF WHAT HAPPENED LAST NIGHT, BUT
THROUGHOUT THE LAST YEAR?
WHAT ARE YOU SAYING TO POLICE
DEPARTMENTS, TO POLICE OFFICIALS
ABOUT HOW THEY SHOULD BE
THINKING NOT ONLY ABOUT
INTERACTING WITH THE COMMUNITY,
BUT ABOUT THE WORK THEY DO?
>> WELL, IT'S COMPLICATED, AND
CERTAINLY, THANK GOD THOSE TWO
OFFICERS ARE OKAY LAST TIME.
AND YOU SEE HOE COMPLICATED
THEIR JOB IS FROM ONE DAY
THEY'RE DE-ESCALATING A
SITUATION, ONE DAY THEY'RE
DEALING WITH A HOMELESS PERSON,
THE NEXT DAY THEY'RE BEING
FIRED.
BUT I THINK THE REPORT THAT CAME
OUT FROM THE JUSTICE DEPARMENT
WAS A VERY SIGNIFICANT REPORT,
AND IN SOME WAYS, THE POLICE
CHIEF LEAVING, THE CITY MANAGER
LEAVING GIVES THEM AN
OPPORTUNITY TO MOVE FORWARD.
>> Woodruff: THIS IN FERGUSON.
>> THIS IS IN FERGUSON.
BUT, YOU KNOW, THIS IS A
DEFINING MOMENT FOR POLICING.
SO AS DIFFICULT AS IT IS, THERE
CAN BE SOME GOOD THINGS THAT CAN
COME OUT OF IT.
I THINK THERE'S A WAY TO MOVE
FORWARD.
IN CINCINNATI, CERTAINLY, WHERE
THE CHIEF IS FROM, THEY HAD THIS
EXPERIENCE.
IN OTHER CITIES, IN PITTSBURGH
AND SO FORTH, THERE CAN BE SOME
OPPORTUNITIES TO LEARN.
THE FERG SOP SITUATION WAS
PARTICULARLY PROBLEMATIC BECAUSE
OF THE REVENUE ASPECT OF IT IT.
YOU DON'T USUALLY SEE THAT.
>> Woodruff: WHERE THEY WERE
TRYING TO RAISE A LOT OF MONEY
BY GIVING OUT MANY TICKETS AND
IT APPEARED TO BE RACIALLY
SLANTED.
>> RIGHT.
AND THE INTERESTING THING ABOUT
FERGUSON, TOO, IS ITS SIZE.
IT'S A CITY OF 22,000.
IT'S 50 OFFICERS.
MOST OF THESE INCIDENTS THAT
WE'VE HAVE HAD BEEN IN LARGER
JURISDICTIONS.
BUT MOST OF THE POLICE
DEPARTMENTS IN THIS COUNTRY ARE
MORE LIKE FERGUSON.
85%, 90% ARE 50 OFFICERS OR
LESS.
SO THAT'S A CHALLENGE.
HOW DO YOU GET THESE SMALLER
AGENCIES TO COME UP TO
PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS?
>> Woodruff: WELL, WHETHER
IT'S A SMALL OR LARGER AGENCY,
DARRELL STEPHENS, WHAT ARE SOME
EXAMPLES OF THE KINDS OF THINGS
POLICE ARE DOING OR SHOULD BE
DOING AS THEY WALK THIS LINE
BETWEEN RESPECTING THE COMMUNITY
ON THE ONE HAND AND ON THE OTHER
HAND KEEPING SAFE THEMSELVES?
>> WELL, I THINK WE'VE SEEN FOR
A NUMBER OF YEARS POLICING
IMPLEMENTING COMMUNITY POLICING,
PROBLEM SOLVING, ENGAGING THE
COMMUNITY IN A PARTNERSHIP TO
HELP MAKE THEIR NEIGHBORHOODS
SAFER.
WE'RE REVISITING ALL OF THOSE
POLICIES AND APROACHES THAT
WE'VE SEEN, EFFECTIVE IN OUR
LARGER CITIES AND ELSEWHERE
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.
AND I THINK SINCE FERGUSON AND
ACTUALLY OVER THE PAST COUPLE OF
YEARS, THERE'S BEEN A
RE-ENGAGEMENT.
I THINK THE OTHER THING THAT
WE'RE SEEING IS--
>> Woodruff: LET ME JUST
INTERRUPT.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY
"RE-ENGAGEMENT?"
>>  WE LOST TOUCH WITH OUR
COMMUNITIES IN MANY CITIES.
THE ECONOMIC DOWNTURN THROUGH
2008, WE SAW A LOT OF OUR CITIES
LOSE 300, 400, 500 POLICE
OFFICERS FROM THEIR FORCE, AND
THEY HAD TO EMPHASIZE RESPONDING
TO CALLS FOR SERVICE.
SO THEIR ABILITY TO SPEND THE
TIME THAT'S REQUIRED TO DEVELOP
THOSE RELATIONSHIPS WAS IMPACTED
HEAVILY.
NOW THEY CONTINUED TO TRY TO DO
THAT AS WELL AS THEY CAN, AND I
THINK THROUGH THAT PROCESS, WE
DID LOSE A LITTLE BIT OF TOUCH,
AND SO WE'RE NOW TRYING TO
RE-ENGAGE AND WORK THROUGH THOSE
RELATIONSHIPS.
WE'RE ALSO INVESTING A LOT IN
PROCEDURAL JUSTICE TRAINING, IN
BIAS TRAINING SO THAT OFFICERS
HAVE A LOT BETTER UNDERSTANDING
ABOUT SOME OF THE ISSUES THAT
THEY FACE ON THE STREET.
>> Woodruff: CHIEF BLACKWELL,
CHIEF OF THE POLICE IN
CINCINNATI, WE KNOW YOU'RE IN
ATLANTA FOR THE CONFERENCE OF
BLACK CHIEF-- POLICE EXECUTIVES.
WHAT WOULD YOU ADD TO WHAT HE
JUST SAID AND WHAT'S THE
CONVERSATION-- I KNOW YOU JUST
ARRIVED THERE TODAY, BUT WHAT IS
THE CONVERSATION GAMONG BLACK
POLICE OFFICIALS ABOUT ALL THIS?
>> WELL, I AGREE WITH DARRELL
AND CHUCK.
YOU KNOW, THEY GET US TOGETHER,
THE MAJOR CITY CHIEFS, FOUR OR
FIVE TIMES A YEAR AND WE TALK
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, CONSTITUTIONAL
POLICING, BIAS-FREE POLICING,
AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.
AND DARRELL IS RIGHT WHEN HE
SAID THAT WHEN WE LOST OFFICERS
DUE TO THE ECONOMIC DOWNTURN, A
LOT OF CHIEFS RESPONDED BACK TO
OUR POLICE MODELS, TRADITIONAL
POLICING, WHERE OFFICERS SIMPLY
RESPOND TO 911 CALLS AND PUT
FIRES OUT AND MOVE AROUND AND
NEVER TAKE THE TIME TO ENGAGE
THE COMMUNITY.
AND UNLESS YOU HAVE AUTHENTIC
RELATIONSHIPS WITH PEOPLE IN
YOUR CITY, YOU ARE DOOMED
BECAUSE THERE WILL ALWAYS BE A
FRACTURE THAT EXISTS BETWEEN
COPS AND COMMUNITY UNLESS YOU
INCLUDE THE COMMUNITY IN PROBLEM
SOLVING POLICING.
>> Woodruff: CHUCK WEXLER,
WHAT WOULD YOU TO DO THAT?
AND I'D LIKE TO YOU JUST ADD TO
IT, WHAT SHOULD PEOPLE KNOW
ABOUT THE WORK OF THE POLICE
OFFICER?
BECAUSE I THINK SOMETIMES IT
BECOMES A STEREOTYPE.
>> SURE.
FIRST AN INTERESTING POINT,
WHICH IS CRIME IS ACTUALLY AT
ITS LOWEST POINT SINCE THE
1960s.
THAT'S THE IRONY OF THIS WHOLE
SITUATION IS THAT, YOU KNOW,
THERE WAS A TIME 20 YEARS AGO
THERE WERE 2200 HOMICIDES IN NEW
YORK CITY.
TODAY THERE'S AROUND 300.
SO AT THE SAME TIME THAT CRIME
HAS DECREASED, WE HAVE THIS
ISSUE OF COMMUNITY TRUST.
SO THEY DON'T-- THEY'RE NOT
CONNECTED.
SO THAT'S WHERE WE HAVE TO
REINVEST WITH THE COMMUNITIES,
ENGAGE WITH THE COMMUNITIES, AND
MAYBE WE LOST A LITTLE BIT OF
THAT.
I THINK THE JOB OF A POLICE
OFFICER IS INCREDIBLY
COMPLICATED, INCREDIBLY.
ONE MINUTE, AS I SAID BEFORE,
THEY'RE TRYING TO DEAL WITH
SOMEONE IN CRISIS.
NEXT MINUTE THEY'RE CALMING THEM
DOWN.
ONE MINUTE IT'S VERY CALM.
THE NEXT MINUTE THEY'RE BEING
SHOT AT.
ONE MINUTE THEY HAVE TO MAKE
SPLIT-SECOND DECISIONS ON THE
USE OF FORCE.
AND IN FERGUSON, YOU SEE THAT--
IN OTHER CITIES-- YOU SEE THAT,
SO WE WANT PEOPLE TO BE REALLY
WELL TRAINED, WELL SELECTED, WE
WANT DIVORCE WORKFORCES, ALL OF
THOSE THINGS.
IT'S A REALLY IMPORTANT JOB AND
A DIFFICULT ONE.
>> Woodruff: WELL, WE
APPRECIATE ALL OF YOU A DIFFICUT
SUBJECT.
CHIEF WEXLER, JAME
>> Ifill: IN IRAQ, THERE WAS
MORE HEAVY FIGHTING IN TIKRIT
TODAY AS IRAQI FORCES AND
MILITIAS MOVED IN ON THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP.
ELSEWHERE, THE IRAQI MILITARY
REPORTS THAT SEVERAL IRAQI
SOLDIERS WERE KILLED IN A
FRIENDLY FIRE INCIDENT INVOLVING
AN AIRCRAFT FROM THE U.S. LED
COALITION.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
JANE ARRAF IS ON THE GROUND IN
IRAQ.
I SPOKE TO HER A SHORT TIME AGO.
JANE, THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
CAN WE START BY TALKING ABOUT
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS BATTLE
FOR TIKRIT.
THE GOVERNMENT SEEMS TO HAVE
MADE SOME PROGRESS TOWARDS
RE-ENTERING THE CITY.
>> Reporter: ABSOLUTELY, GWEN.
THIS IS A HUGE TEST.
IT'S THE BIGGEST SUNNI CITY THAT
THE FORCES HAVE TRIED TO TAKE
BACK, AND THESE ARE GOVERNMENT
FORCES, OF COURSE, BACKED BY
SHI'A MILITIA.
SO THEY'RE FACING A LOT OF
OPPOSITION.
IT'S AN ISIL STRONGHOLD, AN I.S.
GROUP STRONGHOLD, AND THEY'VE
HELD IT, ESSENTIALLY, SINCE THEY
ROLLED INTO THE COUNTRY STARTING
LAST JUNE.
SO IT'S REALLY GOING TO SHOW
WHETHER THEY'RE ABLE TO TAKE A
CITY LIKE THIS ON THE WAY TO
MOSUL.
THIS IS A NECESSARY STEP TO
AND THEY'RE FACING A LOT OF
MOSUL.
RESISTANCE.
AND THEY'RE FACING A LOT OF
THEY'VE BEEN AT THIS FOR ALMOST
RESISTANCE.
10 DAYS NOW, STILL INSIDE ONLY
THEY'VE BEEN AT THIS FOR ALMOST
PART OF THE CITY, AND FIGHTING
10 DAYS NOW, STILL INSIDE ONLY
VERY FIERCELY WITH ISLAMIC STATE
PART OF THE CITY, AND FIGHTING
FIGHTERS WHO HAVE LAID
VERY FIERCELY WITH ISLAMIC STATE
EXPLOSIVES ALL THE WAY ALONG THE
FIGHTERS WHO HAVE LAID
ROADS.
EXPLOSIVES ALL THE WAY ALONG THE
GWEN.
ROADS.
>> Ifill: THERE HAVE BEEN SOME
GWEN.
CONCERNS THE IRAQI FORCES WERE
>> Ifill: THERE HAVE BEEN SOME
NOT READY FOR PRIME TIME.
CONCERNS THE IRAQI FORCES WERE
HAS THIS SHOWN THAT THEY ARE OR
NOT READY FOR PRIME TIME.
ARE THEY GETTING SIGNIFICANT
HAS THIS SHOWN THAT THEY ARE OR
SUPPORT FROM COALITION FORCES?
ARE THEY GETTING SIGNIFICANT
>> Reporter: WELL, THAT'S THE
SUPPORT FROM COALITION FORCES?
REALLY INTERESTING THING BECAUSE
>> Reporter: WELL, THAT'S THE
THIS ISN'T REALLY JUST ONE
REALLY INTERESTING THING BECAUSE
BATTLE AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE
THIS ISN'T REALLY JUST ONE
GROUP.
BATTLE AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE
IT'S MANY DIFFERENT BATTLES, AND
GROUP.
THE DYNAMICS IN TIKRIT ARE THAT
IT'S MANY DIFFERENT BATTLES, AND
THE U.S. IS REALLY NOT INVOLVED.
THE DYNAMICS IN TIKRIT ARE THAT
IT'S IRAN AT THE FRONT OF THIS.
THE U.S. IS REALLY NOT INVOLVED.
IT'S IRANIAN-BACKED MILITIAS.
IT'S IRAN AT THE FRONT OF THIS.
THERE ARE TWICE AS MANY
IT'S IRANIAN-BACKED MILITIAS.
MILITIAMEN AS THERE ARE REGULAR
THERE ARE TWICE AS MANY
IRAQI ARMY TROOPS.
MILITIAMEN AS THERE ARE REGULAR
SO THIS REALLY IS AN INDICATION
IRAQI ARMY TROOPS.
OF HOW DIFFERENT THAT KIND OF
SO THIS REALLY IS AN INDICATION
FIGHT IS.
OF HOW DIFFERENT THAT KIND OF
NOW, HERE IN THE NORTH, THERE
FIGHT IS.
HAVE, OF COURSE, BEEN PESHMERGA,
NOW, HERE IN THE NORTH, THERE
KURDISH FORCES, BACKED BY U.S.
HAVE, OF COURSE, BEEN PESHMERGA,
AIR STRIKES, AND THERE ARE U.S.
KURDISH FORCES, BACKED BY U.S.
AIR STRIKES IN ANBAR, THE
AIR STRIKES, AND THERE ARE U.S.
WESTERN PROVINCE.
AIR STRIKES IN ANBAR, THE
BUT TIKRIT REALLY IS A SHOW
WESTERN PROVINCE.
THAT'S RUN BY THE IRANIAN-BACKED
BUT TIKRIT REALLY IS A SHOW
MILITIAS, BY THE IRAQIS
THAT'S RUN BY THE IRANIAN-BACKED
THEMSELVES, AND THE U.S. IS VERY
MILITIAS, BY THE IRAQIS
CAREFULLY STAYED OUT OF THAT.
THEMSELVES, AND THE U.S. IS VERY
SO THE REAL TEST HERE ISN'T EVEN
CAREFULLY STAYED OUT OF THAT.
SO MUCH CAN THEY TAKE BACK THE
SO THE REAL TEST HERE ISN'T EVEN
CITY BECAUSE THEY ARE EXPECTED
SO MUCH CAN THEY TAKE BACK THE
TO?
CITY BECAUSE THEY ARE EXPECTED
IT'S WHAT HAPPENS AFTER?
TO?
HOW DO THEY HOLD THE CITY?
IT'S WHAT HAPPENS AFTER?
AND WILL PEOPLE BE CONFIDENT
HOW DO THEY HOLD THE CITY?
THAT IT'S SAFE ENOUGH TO COME
AND WILL PEOPLE BE CONFIDENT
BACK, GIVEN THAT THERE ARE
THAT IT'S SAFE ENOUGH TO COME
CONCERNS ABOUT REVENGE KILLINGS
BACK, GIVEN THAT THERE ARE
AND ETHNIC CLEANSING AS WELL.
CONCERNS ABOUT REVENGE KILLINGS
>> Ifill: YOU MENTIONED ANBAR
AND ETHNIC CLEANSING AS WELL.
PROVINCE.
>> Ifill: YOU MENTIONED ANBAR
THERE IS ANOTHER COMPLICATION ON
PROVINCE.
THAT FRONT.
THERE IS ANOTHER COMPLICATION ON
A FRIENDLY FIRE INCIDENT.
THAT FRONT.
WHAT CAN YOU TELL BUS THAT?
A FRIENDLY FIRE INCIDENT.
>> Reporter: WELL, THAT ONE IS
WHAT CAN YOU TELL BUS THAT?
MURKY.
>> Reporter: WELL, THAT ONE IS
WHAT WE KNOW IS APPROXIMATELY 25
MURKY.
IRAQI SOLDIERS HAVE BEEN KILLED
WHAT WE KNOW IS APPROXIMATELY 25
WHEN WHAT APPEARS TO BE THEIR
IRAQI SOLDIERS HAVE BEEN KILLED
MILITARY BARRACKS WERE HIT BY AN
WHEN WHAT APPEARS TO BE THEIR
AIR STRIKE.
MILITARY BARRACKS WERE HIT BY AN
SOME IRAQI OFFICIALS HAVE SAID
AIR STRIKE.
IT WAS A U.S. AIR STRIKE.
SOME IRAQI OFFICIALS HAVE SAID
THE U.S. HAS SAID IT ACTUALLY
IT WAS A U.S. AIR STRIKE.
DID LAUNCH AN AIR STRIKE IN
THE U.S. HAS SAID IT ACTUALLY
RAMADI, BUT THAT IT HIT ISLAMIC
DID LAUNCH AN AIR STRIKE IN
STATE FIGHTING POSITIONS, AND IT
RAMADI, BUT THAT IT HIT ISLAMIC
SAYS IT KNOWS OF NO FRIENDLY
STATE FIGHTING POSITIONS, AND IT
FIRE CASUALTIES.
SAYS IT KNOWS OF NO FRIENDLY
SO THAT LEAVES ONE MORE OPTION,
FIRE CASUALTIES.
BASICALLY.
SO THAT LEAVES ONE MORE OPTION,
THE ONLY OTHER AIRCRAFT
BASICALLY.
OPERATING IN THE AREA WERE
THE ONLY OTHER AIRCRAFT
IRAQI.
OPERATING IN THE AREA WERE
THE IMPLICATION IS THAT IT MIGHT
IRAQI.
HAVE BEEN IRAQI FRIENDLY FIRE
THE IMPLICATION IS THAT IT MIGHT
BUT THAT'S STILL BEING
HAVE BEEN IRAQI FRIENDLY FIRE
INVESTIGATED.
BUT THAT'S STILL BEING
>> Ifill: SO MUCH IS STILL
INVESTIGATED.
BEING INVESTIGATED AND THE STORY
>> Ifill: SO MUCH IS STILL
CHANGES EVERY DAY.
BEING INVESTIGATED AND THE STORY
THANK YOU FOR COVERING IT FOR
CHANGES EVERY DAY.
US, JANE ARRAF, IN BAGHDAD.
THANK YOU FOR COVERING IT FOR
>> Reporter: THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: THE POLITICAL
FUTURE OF THE ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER, WHO DOMINATED
HEADLINES LAST WEEK WITH A
SPEECH TO CONGRESS, IS VERY MUCH
UP IN THE AIR TONIGHT, AS A
RIVAL POLITICAL FACTION INCHED
AHEAD OF HIS PARTY IN THE LATEST
POLLS.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL TRAVELED TO
ISRAEL TO SEE WHAT THE LEADER IS
UP AGAINST IN THIS COMING
TUESDAY'S ELECTION.
>> Reporter: ONE MAN HAS
DOMINATED ISRAEL'S KNESSET FOR
THE LAST SIX YEARS: BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU, LEADER OF THE CENTER-
RIGHT LIKUD PARTY.
IN CT, FAIF YOU INCLUDE THE
THREE YEARS HE SERVED AS PRIME
MINISTER IN THE LATE '90S, HE IS
THE SECOND-LONGEST SERVING
ISRAELI LEADER BEHIND DAVID BEN
GUIRION, KNOWN AS THE FATHER OF
ISRAEL.
NETANYAHU WAS JUST TWO YEARS
INTO HIS TERM WHEN HE CALLED
THIS ELECTION, AND IT WILL BE
PIVOTAL ONE, A REFERENDUM ON
BENJAMIN "BIBI" NETANYAHU.
>> THERE WILL BE PEOPLE WHO SAY
WE HAVE TO HAVE NETANYAHU.
WE CAN'T TRUST TO HAVE ANYONE
ELSE LEAD THIS COUNTRY IN THIS
FRAUGHT REGION.
>> Reporter: DAVID HOROWITZ IS
THE FORMER EDITOR OF THE
INFLUENTIAL "JERUSALEM POST."
HE NOW RUNS HIS OWN PAPER, THE
"TIMES OF ISRAEL."
>> AND THERE WILL BE PART OF THE
ELECTORATE THAT SAYS "ANYONE BUT
NETANYAHU.
THE MAN'S A DISASTER, HE'S
PLUNGING ISRAEL INTO PARIAH
STATUS, AND WE NEED A CHANGE OF
LEADERSHIP."
>> Reporter: WHEN HE CAMPAIGNS,
NETANYAHU IS, AS ALWAYS,
CONFIDENT OF VICTORY.
>> ( translated ): PUSHING THE
LINE THAT ISRAEL FACES AN
EXISTENTIAL THREAT FROM IRAN AND
HAMAS IN GAZA, TELLING AUDIENCES
ABOUT HIS RESPONSIBILITY TO
PROTECT THE NATIONS NATIONAL
SECURITY.
>> Reporter: AVIV BUSHINSKY,
NETANYAHU'S MEDIA ADVISER WHEN
HE WAS PRIME MINISTER IN 1998.
>> NETANYAHU THINKS-- HE REALLY
THINKS SO-- THAT HE IS THE ONLY
ONE THAT CAN PROTECT THE
COUNTRY.
ITS REALLY STRANGE, BUT THAT'S
HOW NETANYAHU THINKS.
>> Reporter: BUT ISRAELIS ARE
DIVIDED-AND UNDECIDED.
THE POLLS ARE CLOSE.
THE LABOUR PARTY, LED BY ISAAC
HERZOG AND HIS NEW ALLY, TZIPI
LIVNI, HAVE FORMED A FORMIDABLE
ALLIANCE, THE ZIONIST UNION,
SOMETIMES CALLED THE ZIONIST
CAMP.
OFTEN CAMPAIGNING TOGETHER, THEY
ARE GOING AFTER CENTER AND
CENTER-LEFT VOTERS.
HERZOG AND THE ZIONIST CAMP ARE
LOOKING TO CAPITALIZE ON THAT
PERCEPTION THAT ISRAEL IS
LOOKING FOR A CHANGE.
>> ( SPEAKING HEBREW )
>> Reporter: HERZOG TELLS
POTENTIAL SUPPORTERS TO FORGET
ABOUT LABOUR'S PAST ELECTORAL
DEFEATS, TO FOCUS ON REPLACING
NETANYAHU.
HE WON MANY SUPPORTERS AT THIS
KIBBUTZ NEAR TEL AVIV.
>> PEOPLE SAY THAT BIBI IS
STRONG.
SO WHAT?
WHAT IT MEANS FOR US?
HE'S STRONG, OKAY, BUT NOTHING
IS GOOD.
THAT'S WHY WE NEED SOMEONE THAT
CAN MAKE A CHANGE.
>> TENS OF THOUSANDS TURNED OUT
LAST WEEKEND IN TEL AVIV'S
RABBIN SARE,QU NOT AS A
STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FOR ANY
SINGLE POLICE PLIL FACTION BUT
AS A UNIIFYING CALL FOR THE
OUSTER OF THE PRIME MINISTER,
EVEN SOME FORMER SUPPORTERS ARE
TURNING.
>> I THINK NETANYAHU RIGHT NOW
IS THE BEST, BUT STILL NO
RESULTS FOR THE LAST SIX YEARS.
>> Reporter: SO, TIME FOR A
CHANGE?
>> YES, IT'S TIME FOR A CHANGE.
>> Reporter: WHO DID YOU VOTE
FOR IN THE LAST ELECTION?
>> THE LAST ELECTION, I VOTED
FOR NETANYAHU.
>> Reporter: AND WHY NOT THIS
TIME?
>> BECAUSE HE FIGHT WITH MR.
OBAMA.
>> Reporter: AND YOU DON'T LIKE
THAT?
>> NO, I DON'T LIKE THIS.
>> Reporter: WHY DON'T YOU LIKE
THAT?
>> BECAUSE OBAMA IS GOOD FOR US,
AND IT'S NOT GOOD THAT MR.
NETANYAHU FIGHT WITH HIM.
>> WE THE YOUNGER PEOPLE WE NEED
HOPE.
WE NEED HOPE, WE SEEK HOPE, AND
THE ECONOMIC SITUATION IS NOT
GOING ANY BETTER, AND THE
SITUATION WITH THE PALESTINIANS
ISN'T GETTING ANY BETTER.
>> Reporter: DESPITE NETANYAHU'S
PUBLIC SUPPORT FOR TWO STATES
FOR TWO PEOPLES, THE PEACE
PROCESS REMAINS AT A STANDSTILL.
TZIPI LIVNI, THE ZIONIST UNION'S
OTHER LEADER, REGULARLY ATTACKS
NETANYAHU ON THE PALESTINIAN
ISSUE.
LIVNI HAS LONG EXPERIENCE
NEGOTIATING WITH THE
PALESTINIANS IN PREOUSVI
GOVERNMENTS, INCLUDING
NETANYAHU'S MOST RECENT ONE.
>> I DO BELIEVE IN THE RIGHT OF
THE JEWISH PEOPLE ON THEIR LAND,
BUT I ALSO BELIEVE THAT THE
VISION OF TWO STATES FOR TWO
PEOPLE REPRESENTS THE INTEREST
OF ISRAEL-- NOT A FAVOR TO THE
PALESTINIANS, NOT EVEN A FAVOR
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES.
IT IS OUR INTERESTS AND THE ONLY
WAY TO KEEP ISRAEL A JEWISH
DEMOCRATIC STATE.
>> Repter:or AGAIN, THE MESSAGE
IS CLEAR: THE ZIONIST CAMP
REPRESENTS THE REAL ISRAEL, THAT
VICTORY IS NEAR.
AND DO YOU THINK YOU'RE GOING TO
WIN?
>> YES, OF COURSE.
OF COURSE WE SHOULD WIN!
>> Reporter: BUT LIVNI AND
HERZOG ARE SEEN TO LACK ON THAT
ONE ISSUE THAT POLLS SHOW
ISRAELIS ARE DEEPLY CONCERNED
ABOUT: SECURITY.
HERZOG HAS IMPECCABLE POLITICAL
CREDENTIALS, BUT HE ISN'T A
FORMER GENERAL AND UNLIKE
NETANYAHU, HERZOG DIDN'T SERVE
IN AN ELITE MILITARY UNIT.
THE LIKUD AD CAMPAIGNS PORTRAY
THE ZIONIST UNION LEADERS AS
WEAK AND INDECISIVE.
THE CENTER-LEFT TRIES TO STEER
AWAY TO THE ECONOMY AND OTHER
AREAS OF DISSATISFACTION,
INCLUDING CORRUPTION AND THE
SKY-HIGH COST OF LIVING AND
HOUSING PRICES WHICH HAVE LEFT
MANY ISRAELIS BEHIND.
BUT THAT STRATEGY IS PROVING
DIFFICULT.
YOU WILL OFTEN HEAR PEOPLE TALK
ABOUT SOCIAL ISSUES ON THE
STREET, BUT, SO FAR, THOSE
ISSUES HAVE NOT BEEN A MAJOR
FACTOR IN THE CAMPAIGN.
NETANYAHU HAS SOMEHOW MANAGED TO
KEEP THOSE ISSUES OUT OF THE
PRE-ELECTION DEBATE AND KEEP THE
FOCUS ON SECURITY.
IT IS CRITICAL TO HIS RE-
ELECTION CAMPAIGN.
HERE'S WHY: THE LATEST POLLING
HAS THE CENTER-LEFT ZIONIST CAMP
INCHING AHEAD TO THE CENTER-
RIGHT LIKUD, BUT MANY ANALYSTS
BELIEVE THE GAP MUST BE
SIGNIFICANT-- WIDE ENOUGH TO
COUNTER NETANYAHU'S STRENGTH, A
BETTER CHANCE OF FORMING A
COALITION WITH THE SMALLER RIGHT
WING PARTIES.
>> IT DOESN'T BLOCK IRAN'S PATH
TO THE BOMB.
IT PAVES IRAN'S PATH TO THE
BOMB.
>> Reporter: ANALYSTS BELIEVE
THAT'S WHY NETANYAHU TALKS ABOUT
IRAN, WHY HE WENT TO CONGRESS
DESPITE OPPOSITION FROM NEARLY
HALF THE ISRAELI POPULATION.
>> NETANYAHU IS NOT TALKING TO
THE ENTIRE POPULATION; HE IS
TALKING TO THE RIGHT WINGERS.
BECAUSE HE WANTS TO CAPTURE THE
MOST SEATS, AND HE KNOWS HE WILL
NOT GET IT FROM THE LEFT; HE'LL
T FROM THE RIGHT.
>> Reporter: WITHIN THE RIGHT
WING ITSELF, NETANYAHU COULD
FACE CHALLENGES FROM NAFTHALI
BENNETT OF THE ULTRA NATIONALIST
JEWISH HOME PARTY OR MOSHE
KHALON, ONE OF NETANYAHU'S
FORMER MINISTERS NOW LEADING HIS
OWN PARTY.
BOTH ARE EXPECTED TO JOIN
NETANYAHU IN A COALITION, BUT
NOTHING IS A SURE THING.
AND FOR THE FIRST TIME, ISRAEL'S
ARAB PARTIES HAVE UNITED.
THEY ARE RUNNING AS ONE BLOC AND
ARE EXPECTED TO DO WELL.
KASSIM SULIEMAN IS AN ARAB
ISRAELI TALK SHOW HOST.
SHE SAYS THE ARAB PARTIES COULD
END UP WITH 12 TO 15 SEATS,
ENOUGH TO INFLUENCE WHO BECOMES
PRIME MINISTER.
>> THEY WILL FIND A WAY TO HELP,
LET'S SAY, LEFT-WING GOVERNMENT
BUT WITHOUT BEING A PART OF THE
GOVERNMENT.
>> Reporter: ISRAEL'S PRESIDENT,
REUVEN RIVLIN, WILL ULTIMATELY
DECIDE WHO WILL BE PRIME
MINISTER, AND IT WON'T
NECESSARILY BE THE LEADER WITH
THE MOST SEATS, RATHER THE
PERSON BEST ABLE TO PUT TOGETHER
A COALITION.
IF THE RESULTS ARE CLOSE, THERE
COULD BE DAYS OF HORSE TRADING.
>> THE MORNING AFTER, WHEN THEY
ADD UP THE VOTES, IT MAY NOT BE
CLEAR WHO THESE PARTY LEADERS
WILL RECOMMEND TO THE PRESIDENT
THEIR CHOICE FOR PRIME MINISTER.
IT MIGHT TAKE A WHILE TO PLAY
OUT.
>> Reporter: ISRAELIS AND THE
WORLD WILL BE WATCHING.
WILL NETANYAHU EMERGE AS PRIME
MINISTER AGAIN, OR WILL IT BE
SOMEONE NEW?
FOR THEN JERUSALEM.
>> Ifill: NOW, BECOMING A
PROFESSIONAL COMPUTER PROGRAMMER
IN WEEKS.
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN HAS THE STORY.
IT'S PART OF OUR ONGOING
REPORTING, "MAKING SENSE," WHICH
AIRS EVERY THURSDAY ON THE
NEWSHOUR.
>> Reporter: WHAT'S MAKING
THIS DRONE FLY?
NOT A REMOTE-CONTROL GIZMO, BUT
COMPUTER CODE WRITTEN BY
STUDENTS AT NEW YORK'S FLAT IRON
SCHOOL.
ONE OF NUMEROUS CODING BOOTCAMPS
ONLINE AND AROUND THE COUNTRY
DESIGNED TO LAND THEIR GRADUATES
GIGS IN PERHAPS THE HOTTEST
FIELD IN AMERICA RIGHT NOW, WEB
DEVELOPMENT.
>> I THINK THAT IF YOU PROGRAM
TODAY, YOU'RE A MAN THAT CAN SEE
IN A BLIND MAN'S WORLD.
>> Reporter: PROGRAMMING IS
BIG RIGHT NOW, SAYS FLAT IRON
COFOUNDER AND DEAN AVIPOSITIVE
FLANNED BALM, AND WILL BE EVEN
BIG NERT FUTURE.
>> THERE'S JUST SUCH A DEMAND
FOR THESE KINDS OF SKILLS, THAT
IF YOU ARE COMPETENT AND YOU ARE
PASSIONATE ABOUT THIS AND A
SELF-DRIVEN PERSON, THERE ARE
MORE OPPORTUNITIES THAN THEY CAN
POSSIBLY FILL.
>> Reporter: 12 WEEKS OF
IMMERSIVE CODING, NO EXPERIREQU0
TO $15,000.
BUT AT THE END, 99% OF FLAT IRON
GRADUATES GET JOBS AS DEVELOPERS
MAKING, ON AVERAGE, $74 A YEAR
TO START.
ARMONDO AMEDURE GRADUATED A YEAR
AGO AFTER LOSING HISS MARKETING
DESIGN JOB IN 2013.
>> I REMEMBER BEING UNEMPLOYED,
AND I COULDN'T FIND ANYTHING.
I COULDN'T FIND-- NOT EVEN AN
INTERVIEW.
PEOPLE WOULD NOT RESPOND BACK TO
E-MAILS.
AND ONCE I FINISHED THE PROGRAM
AND I CHANGED MY JOB TITLE TO
SOFTWARE ENGINEER, JUST THAT
SAME HOUR, MY IN BOSKS FULL OF
MESSAGES, JUST LIKE PEOPLE
SENDING YOU E-MAILS, AND CALLING
YOU.
>> Reporter: HOW DID YOU FEEL?
>> I FELT LIKE I WAS ON TOP OF A
MOUNTAIN.
I JUST FELT, LIKE, POWERFUL,
LIKE, WHERE WERE YOU GUYS A
COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO WHEN I WAS
LOOKING FOR A JOB IN.
>> Reporter: AT MANHATTAN
START-UP WIZARD DEVELOPMENT,
AMADOR NOW MAKES DOUBLE WHAT HE
USED TO.
IT'S JOBS LIKE HIS THAT DREW
CURRENT STUDENT GERALDINEA
GARCIA TO FLAT IRON.
SHE DROPPED OUT OF COLLEGE TO
ATTEND.
>> I KIND OF GOT INTO THE TECH
INDUSTRY AND REALIZED HOW
UNIMPORTANT A COLLEGE DEGREE
REALLY IS.
>> Reporter: GARCIA, WHO
MAJORED IN COMPUTER SCIENCE,
JOINS A GROWING CHORUS OF THOSE
QUESTIONING THE VALUE OF A
DEGREE FROM A TRADITIONAL
FOUR-YEAR UNIVERSITY, ESPECIALLY
IF IT MEANS ASSUMING DEBT.
>> A LOT OF MY FRIENDS THAT
GRADUATE THIS PAST YEAR AND THE
YEAR BEFORE ARE STILL LOOKING
FOR JOBS.
I THINK PART OF THE REASON FOR
THAT IS THAT THEY KNOW A LOT OF
THE THEORY, BUT THEY DON'T HAVE
HANDS-ON EXPERIENCE.
>> Reporter: MAYBE THAT'S WHY
COLLEGE DIDN'T WORK OUT FOR
CLASS LEEWAD.
>> I TOOK TWO INTRO TO
PROGRAMMING CLASSES AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
I FAILED THE FIRST TIME AND THEN
I FAILED AGAIN THE SECOND TIME.
I THOUGHT I'M NOT A PROGRAMMER.
I'M DEFINITELY NOT CUT OUT FOR
THIS.
>> Reporter: BUT HE WENT
ONLINE, STARTED LEARNING HOW TO
CODE ON HIS OWN, THEN APPLIED TO
FLAT IRON.
>> WHY GO TO COLLEGE FOR FOUR
YEARS AND WORK UP A CORPORATE
LADDER TO GET IN THE POSITION TO
DO SOMETHING GREAT WHEN YOU CAN
JUST LEARN TO CREATE SOMETHING
GREAT?
>> Reporter: NOW THE DROPOUT
AND CODE APPROACH ISN'T FOR
EVERYONE.
AFTER ALL, THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
FOR THOSE WITHOUT A TRADITIONAL
COLLEGE DEGREE IS DOUBLE THE
RATE OF THOSE WHO GRADUATED.
MOREOVER, FEW APPLICANTS GET
INTO FLATIRON AT THE MOMENT.
THE 6% ACCEPTANCE RATE RIVAL'S
HARV ORDERS, BUT INSIST FOUNDER
FLAMBOMB, LITERALLY ANYONE CAN
LEARN TO CODE.
>> RIGHT NOW WE'RE LOOK AT YOUR
WEB SITE, MAKING SENSE.
YOU CAN VIEW THE PAGE'S SOURCE
AND IMMEDIATELY SEE THE SOURCE
CODE THAT IS DESCRIBING THE
INSTRUCTIONS TO THE BROWSER FOR
HOW TO MAKE YOUR PAGE LOOK.
IF I WANT, I CAN CHANGE THIS
TEXT TO SAY, "WELCOME TO
FLATIRON SCHOOL, PAUL."
>> Reporter: I SEE, THESE ARE
JUST ALL INSTRUCTIONS.
>> YEAH, THAT'S WHAT CODE IS,
JUST INSTRUCTIONS.
WE CALL THIS AS A PROGRAMMER
JOKE, STRING THEORY, ALL THE
WORLDWIDE WEB, WIKIPEDIA,
TWITTER, YOUR WEB SITE ARE,
GIANT STRINGS OF CODE.
>> Reporter: HIS OWN INTEREST
IN CODING BEGAN WITH A COMPUTER
GAME CALLED NIBBLES IN
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
>> EVENTUALLY I GOT SO GOOD AT
THAT GAME I COULD BEAT IT EVERY
TIME AND I OPENED UP THE SOURCE
CODE TO TRY TO MAKE THE GAME
HARDER.
>> Reporter: HE WENT ON TO
TEACH HIMSELF HOW TO CODE,
ALTHOUGH IT WASN'T EASY.
>> THE WAY IN WHICH I LEARNED
HOW TO PROGRAM WAS ONE OF THE
DARKEST TIMES OF MY LIFE.
I WAS IN HIGH SCHOOL, AND I WAS
ALL ALONE, AND I HAD NO SUPPORT.
AND IT WAS REALLY A STRUGGLE.
SO WITH ALL THE BEGINNERS THAT
COME THROUGH FLATIRON SCHOOL WE
VERY MUCH TALK ABOUT WHAT THE
PROCESS OF LEARNING SOMETHING
DIFFICULT FEELS LIKE, AND NOT TO
GIVE UP.
TO JUST CONTINUE STRUGGLING
THROUGH IT BECAUSE ONE DAY, YOU
WILL UNDERSTAND IT.
>> Reporter: 37-YEAR-OLD
NATASHA SPRINGER WAS IN BIOTECH
BUT LEFT THE JOB MARKET TO RAISE
TWO CHILDREN.
WHEN SHE TRIED TO GO BACK--
>> THEY THOUGHT I WAS OUT OF THE
MARKET.
MAYBE I DIDN'T REALLY HAVE THE
SAME SKILLS ANYMORE.
SO THEY-- THEY WANTED TO OFFER
ME A JOB AT ENTRY LEVEL.
>> Reporter: SO SHE APPLIED TO
FLATIRON AND NOW CREATES WEB
SITES AT DOW JONES.
SO IF YOU CLIP ON THOMAS.
>> MAIL THAT PERSON.
>> Reporter: I SEE.
THAT'S COOL.
>> THIS WAS MY FIRST PROJECT
WHEN I GOT HERE, AND THIS IS MY
TEAM.
>> Reporter: BUT YOU'RE THE
ONLY WOMAN HERE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
( LAUGHS )
>> Reporter: WELL, WHY IS
THAT?
>> IN THE TECH INDUSTRY IT'S
MOSTLY MEN, A LOT OF, LIKE,
25-YEAR-OLD MEN.
>> Reporter: AND IT'S NOT JUST
THAT THE FIELD IS DOMINATED BY
YOUNG MEN.
ON TV, AND IN REALITY, MOSTF O
THEM ARE EITHER WHITE OR ASIAN.
>> NORMALLY, THE TECH WORLD IS
2% WOMEN.
GUYS, THESE NEXT THREE DAYS,
15%.
>> Reporter: WE HEARD MANY
EXPLANATIONS FOR THE LACK OF
DIVERSITY.
>> YOU SEE, MARK ZUCKERBERG FROM
FACEBOOK, AND YOU DON'T SEE
PEOPLE THAT LOOK LIKE YOU.
>> Reporter: GROWING UP IN THE
BRONX, ARMANDO AMADOR COULDN'T
AFFORD A LAPTOP.
>> I JUST DIDN'T HAVE THE
RESOURCES TO PLAY AROUND AND
HACK AND AROUND JUST REALLY
LEARN ALL ABOUT TECHNOLOGY.
>> Reporter: THE WELL-KNOWN
DIGITAL DIVIDE MAY HELP EXPLAIN
SOME OF THE MINORITY EXCLUSION,
BUT WHAT ABOUT WOMEN?
>> BOYS LIKE TO PLAY MORE VIDEO
GAMES SO IT MIGHT HAVE TO DO
WITH HOW THEY'VE GROWN UP IN THE
CURLT OF VIDEO GAMES.
>> I THINK IT'S A CONFIDENCE
ISSUE FOR GIRLS BECAUSE THEY
EXPECT IT TO BE A BOYS' CLUB,
AND IT'S HARD FOR A WOMAN TO GET
INTO A BOYS' CLUB.
>> Reporter: BUT WHATEVER THE
HISTORICAL REASONS, A YOUNG
BOYS' CLUB IT HAS BEEN FOR
YEARS.
THERE ARE EFFORTS UNDER WAY TO
MAKE THE CODING COMMUNITY MORE
DIVERSE.
FOR INSTANCE, AMADOR TAEPPEDDED
FLATIRON AS PART OF A NEW YORK
CITY-SPONSORED FREE FELLOWSHIP
FOR UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS.
AND FRANCELE GOL ATTA, AMADOR'S
BOSS SAID DIVERSITY IS A MARKET
OPPORTUNITY.
>> EVERYONE HAS A DIFFERENT
APPROACH TO SOLVING PROBLEMS.
>> Reporter: HE BELIEVES HIS
COMPANY HAS A COMPETITIVE
ADVANTAGE-- HIRING PROGRAMERTION
WHO LOOK AND THINK DIFFERENTLY
WHY YOUNG, WHITE BOYS LIKE HIM.
>> I AM REPRESENTATIVE OF MOST
MID- TO SENIOR-LEVEL DEVELOPERS
BUT I DON'T THINK A TEAM LIKE ME
WOULD MAKE GOOD PRODUCTS WHY WE
WERE DOING WHAT WE WERE DOING
DIDN'T MAKE SENSE TO HIM WHEN IT
MADE PERFECT SENSE TO ME.
OF COURSE, IT MADE SENSE TO ME
BECAUSE I CAME UP WITH IT.
THE SAME PROBLEM HE WAS HAVING
IS THE SAME PROBLEM I IMAGINE
MOST OF OUR USERS ARE ANYTHING
TO BE HAVING.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, THE
JOBS ARE THERE FOR PRETTY MUCH
EVERYONE THESE DAYS.
SO MANY WEB SITES, SO MUCH
SOFTWARE, THE PROGRAMMING POOL
WILL SIMPLY HAVE TO GROW TO KEEP
UP WITH THE MEN.
THIS IS ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT
PAUL SOLMAN, REPORTING FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR FROM NEW YORK.
>> Woodruff: DON'T GO ANYWHERE,
WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK WITH CHANGES
TO BASEBALL TO MAKE THE GAME GO
FASTER.
BUT FIRST, IT'S PLEDGE WEEK ON
PBS.
THIS BREAK ALLOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT.
AND THAT SUPPORT HELPS KEEP
>> Woodruff: BASEBALL HAS ALWAYS
BEEN, FAMOUSLY, A GAME PLAYED
WITH FEW CONCERNS ABOUT TIME AND
PACING, WITH NO TIME CONSTRAINTS
TO GUIDE IT-- PLAY GOES ON,
UNTIL SOMEONE WINS.
WELL, SPRING TRAINING HAS BEGUN
AND THERE ARE NEW RULES THIS
YEAR INTENDED TO SPEED UP THE
GAME.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: HAVE YOU BEEN TO
A BALLGAME IN THE LAST FEW
YEARS?
OR WATCHED ONE ON TV?
THE AVERAGE DURATION OF A
REGULAR GAME IS NOW THREE HOURS
AND TWO MINUTES.
THAT MEANS A GAME IS ABOUT A
HALF-HOUR LONGER THAN IT WAS IN
THE EARLY EIGHTIES.
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL IS
CONCERNED ABOUT THAT
AND WITH EXHIBITION GAMES UNDER
WAY IN ARIZONA AND FLORIDA, THE
LEAGUE IS MAKING SOME
ADJUSTMENTS, INCLUDING WHAT
HAPPENS BETWEEN INNINGS AND IN
THE BATTER'S BOX.
MIKE PESCA IS HOST OF SLATE'S
DAILY NEWS AND DISCUSSION
PODCAST, "THE GIST," AND A
CONTRIBUTOR TO NPR.
SO FIRST OF ALL, WHAT ARE THE
CHANGES THAT THEY'RE TRYING TO
MAKE?
>> WELL, ONE OF THEM IS JUST
ENFORCING A RULE THAT'S ON THE
BOOKS.
THE BATTER CANNOT STEP OUT OF
THE BATTER'S BOX, ALWAYS HAS TO
HAVE A FOOT THERE.
THE THE REASON IS IF YOU WATCH A
BASEBALL GAME-- AND THIS IS A
RECENT TREND-- THE BATTERS
ADJUST EVERY PIECE OF EQUIPMENT,
EVEN WHEN ALL THEY DO IS STAND
THERE AND TAKE A PITCH.
SOMEHOW THEIR BATTING GLOVES GOT
LOOSE DURING THAT.
IT'S A FEW THINGS.
IT'S AN AFECITATION, IT'S A
HABIT.
SOMETIMES IT'S TRYING TO GET IN
THE HEADS OF THE PITCHERS.
HERE'S BEBAASLL SAYING GUYS,
STAY IN THE BATTER'S BOX AND GET
READY FOR THE NEXT PITCH.
THERE'S NOT A CLOCK DURING THE
GAME BUT IN BETWEEN INNINGS IT
WILL BE TWO MINUTES, 25 SECOND,
OR NATIONALLY TELEVISED, TWO
MINUTES, 45 SECONDS.
WITH 20 SECONDS REMAINING THEY
WILL START TO ANNOUNCE THAT THE
BATTER IS ENTERING THE BOX.
AND THEN THE PITCHER WILL BE
ENDING HEZ WARM-UPS BEFORE THE
NEXT STARTS.
SO WHEN YOU COME BACK FROM
COMMERCIAL, THE BATTER WILL BE
RIGHT THERE READY TO RECEIVE THE
PITCH, THE PITCHER WILL BE READY
TO GO, AND THIS WILL SPEED
THINGS UP THEY HOPE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PITCHER
HAS ON THE BOOKS NOW ONLY A
FINITE AMOUNT OF TIME AND THE
BATTER'S BOX RULE HAS BEEN
THERE.
HOW DO YOU GET TO REN ENFORCE IT
THIS?
>> THEY HAVE VERY, VERY RARELY
BUT IN THE PAST HAVE THREATENED
TO FIND RELIEVERS.
NOW THAT YOU KNOW IT'S A RULE,
THE UMPIRE, WHO HAS GREAT
DISCRETION IN THE GAME, WILL
SAY, "LET'S GO, LET'S GO."
WITH 40 SECONDS LEFT THE GUYS
WILL BE WALK UP.
WHAT BASEBALL IS TRYING TO DO,
BASEBALL PURISTS AND CLOCKS
DON'T GO WELL TOGETHER.
THE GREAT APPEAL OF BASEBALL,
AMONG GREAT APPEALS TA GAME
WITHOUT TIME.
IT IS A PASTORAL GAME SEPARATED
FROM TIME.
NOW, THERE'S A MINOR LEAGUE
SYSTEM AND SOME COLLEGES
ACTUALLY HAVE A CLOCK WHILE THE
PITCHER IS ON THE MOUND BUT
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL DOES NOT
WANT TO DO IT.
THEY EVENING THEY DO THESE
CHANGES, WHICH ARE AROUND THE
MARGINS, WHICH WON'T EVER OFFEND
A PURIST IN FACT, STOP ADJUSTING
YOUR GLOVES, I THINK THE PURISTS
WILL REALLY LIKE THAT.
THOSE ARE THE SORT OF THINGS
THEY CAN DO TO SHAVE A COUPLE OF
MINUTE OF THESE REALLY LONG
GAMES.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS AN
INTEREST TO TRY TO STAY
COMPETITIVE, THE ACTION AND
EXCITEMENT OF FOOTBALL OR
BASKETBALL?
I MEAN, BASEBALL IS, AS YOU SAY,
QUINTESSENTIALLY NOT THOSE
GAMES.
IT'S A DIFFERENT KIND OF
EXPERIENCE IF YOU GO WITH YOUR
FRIEND, IF YRE
LOT OF IT IS THE SOCIALIZING AND
RELAXING.
>> BUT I THINK THAT WAS TRUE IN
1981 WHEN THE AVERAGE GAME WAS
TWO AND A HALF HOURS.
AND REMEMBER, IF THE AVERAGE IS
THREE HOURS, THAT MEANS, YOU
KNOW, HALF THE GAMES ARE MORE
THAN THREE HOURS.
THAT'S A PROBLEM.
AND I THINK BASEBALL KNOWS WHAT
ITS NICHE IS.
IN A WAY, YOU COULD ARGUE, VERY
FACTUALLY BASEBALL HAS NEVER
BEEN MORE SUCCESSFUL, THE OWNERS
ARE MAKING MONEY MONEY THAN
EVER, MORE PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
THE BALLPARK.
BASEBALL HAS GREAT APPEAL, I
DON'T WANT THE NEW COMMISSIONER
KNOWS YOU CAN'T REST ON YOUR
LAURELS.
THE YOUTH MARKET HAS SHORTER
ATTENTION SPANS AND YOU HAVE TO
GIVE A LITTLE MORE EXCITING GAME
THAT'S A LITTLE MORE AT SAY
20-ITH,ING IF NOT 21st
CENTURY PACE TO THE ROOTS OF THE
GAME.
>> Sreenivasan: SAY NATIONALLY
TELEVISED AND SOME PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO WONDER HOW MUCH OF THIS
IS THE BROADCAST CART DRIVING
THE HORSE.
>> I DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S A HUGE
BROADCAST CONSIDERATION BECAUSE
A LOT OF THOSE NATURALLY
BROADCAST GAMES ARE THE LONGEST
GAMES EXPECT THERE ARE 20 MORE
SECONDES OF COMMERCIALS IN
BETWEEN INNINGS AND THEY PUT THE
YANKEEYANKEESYANKEES AND RETD ST
EACH OTHER.
THEY GOOD RATINGS AND PLAY THE
LONGEST BASEBALL GAMES KNOWN TO
MAN.
THE NATIONALLY TELEVISED ASPECT
BASEBALL LESS IMPORTANT THAN A
SPORT LIKE FOOTBALL WHERE EVERY
GAME, EVERY WEEKEND, THERE ARE
NATIONALLY TELEVISED GAME, LESS
MORE SO WITH BASEBALL.
BASEBALL IS MORE DAY IN-DAY OUT,
162 GAMES MAKING THAT EXPERIENCE
MORE RELATIVE TO MODERNITY.
>> Sreenivasan: AND WHAT ABOUT
THOSE SUPERSTITIOUS PLAYERS WHO
SAY I HAVE TO ADJUST THE GLOVE
FOUR TIMES BEFORE I TAKE A SWING
BECAUSE THAT'S WHEN I'M GOING TO
GET THE HOME RUN?
>> THAT COULD BE BEATEN OUT OF
THEM.
AND I THINK ESPECIALLY FOR THE
MINOR LEAGUES, THEY COME UP
KNOWING THAT'S NOT THE SORT OF
THING TO BE DONE.
WE ALSO HAVE SEEN DEREK JETER
RETIRED.
HE WAS ONE OF THE HUGE GLOVE
ADJUSTORS, MAYBE HIS EXITING
FROM THE GAME WILL SPEED THINGS
ALONG ANALLY, SPEED
AND BASEBALL, WILFARRELL FOR A
CHARITABLE CAUSE, WHAT IS HE
TRYING TO DO?
>> PLAYING NINE POSITIONS--
ACTUALLY 10 POSITIONS BECAUSE
HE'S GOING TO FIVE DIFFERENT
GAMES, SO THAT MEANS THEREBY 10
TEAMS.
HE WILL BE THE UMPIRE IN ONE OF
THESE GAMES.
HE'S HONORING THE FORMER
ATHLETIC BERT CAMP NARRIS, THE
FIRST PLAYER TO PERFORM THIS
FEAT.
FERRELL IS A 40-YEAR-OLD
COMEDIAN, LAS VEGAS OR OFFSHORE
BETTING HAS ODDS ON WILL HE
COMMIT AN ERROR?
IT'S QUITE LIKELY AND SO WE'LL
SEE HOW THAT GOES.
>> Sreenivasan: MIKE PESCA,
WE'LL SEE HOW THAT GOES THANK
YOU.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Ifill: FINALLY, TO OUR
"NEWSHOUR SHARES" OF THE DAY.
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
THAT MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
YOU, TOO.
82 YEARS AGO TODAY, PRESIDENT
FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT
DELIVERED THE FIRST OF 30 RADIO
SPEECHES, WHICH CAM BAS THE FIR.
THE ADDRESSES COMFORTED AMERICAN
AUDIENCES AND WERE DESIGNED TO
INSPIRE CONFIDENCE IN THE
NATION'S LEADERS DURING THE
GREAT DEPRESSION.
HERE'S A BIT FROM THE FIRST
FIRESIDE CHAT FAMILIES GATHERED
AROUND THEIR RADIOS TO HEAR, IN
1933.
>> Ifill: TECHNOLOGY MAY HAVE
CHANGED, BUT ROOSEVELT'S IDEA OF
A FIRESIDE CHAT STILL LIVES,
EVEN IN TODAY'S SOCIAL MEDIA,
WHERE THE PHRASE IS USED
REGULARLY TO MEAN A MORE
INTIMATE OR PERSONAL EXPLANATION
OF SOMETHING.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND ATTORNEY
GENERAL ERIC HOLDER CONDEMNED
THE WOUNDING OF TWO POLICEMEN IN
FERGUSON, MISSOURI LAST NIGHT.
A MANHUNT FOR THE GUNMAN WAS
UNDER WAY.
AND "THE WASHINGTON POST"
REPORTED TWO SECRET SERVICE
AGENTS DISRUPTED A POTENTIAL
BOMB SCENE WHEN THEIR CAR STRUCK
WHITE HOUSE BARRICADES LAST
WEEK.
THEY'D ALLEGEDLY BEEN DRINKING
AND MAY HAVE DRIVEN OVER A
SUSPICIOUS PACKAGE THAT LATER
TURNED OUT TO BE A BOOK.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, A TRILLION-DOLLAR
TRANSFER OF WEALTH IS HURTING
THE MIDDLE CLASS.
THAT'S WHAT GUEST COLUMNIST
NICK HANAUER SAYS.
AND HE WOULD KNOW, BECAUSE THE
BILLIONAIRE INVESTOR HAS
TRANSFERRED MORE THAN A LITTLE
WEALTH HIMSELF, THROUGH STOCK
BUYBACKS.
LEARN HOW THEY WORK, AND READ
HIS ARGUMENT AGAINST THEM ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT A
SCATHING REPORT ON THE FAILURES
TO EASE THE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS
IN SYRIA.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.